JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump
are set to
go head to head in the first
presidential
debate amid a virtual tie in the
public opinion
polls.
GWEN IFILL: Also ahead this
Monday, we sit
down with the vice president of
South Sudan
to talk corruption scandals in
the world's
youngest nation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
the modern tale off star-crossed
lovers.
Rob Kapilow deconstructs the
iconic song "Maria"
from Leonard Bernstein's "West
Side Story."
ROB KAPILOW, Composer: One of
the great things
about Bernstein was that he
moved so effortlessly
between the worlds of serious
music and popular
music, and he spoke both
languages absolutely
as if they were vernacular.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: For much of the
nation, it's must-see
TV tonight, and up to 100
million Americans
might be tuning in.
The Republican and Democratic
presidential
nominees meet on the same stage
in Hempstead,
New York, to debate.
John Yang is there, and he
begins our coverage.
JOHN YANG: At Hofstra
University, the stage
is set.
Earlier, stand-ins for Donald
Trump and Hillary
Clinton helped technicians work
out the final
details.
The showdown comes as polls show
the two locked
in a very tight race.
Clinton running mate Tim Kaine
predicted tonight
would be a big test for Trump.
SEN.
TIM KAINE (D-VA), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
Well, tonight, 90 minutes on
stage, you know,
there's going to be a great
opportunity for
the American public to see if
this guy can
tell the truth, I mean, or maybe
if he recognizes
the truth.
JOHN YANG: Both sides are trying
to manage
expectations, Trump calling the
moderators
unfair, Clinton saying they
should fact-check.
This morning, Trump campaign
manager Kellyanne
Conway pushed back.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, Trump Campaign
Manager:
What bothers us, Mark, is the
very public
and very coordinated attempt to
game the refs.
JOHN YANG: Between them, the
nominees have
participated in more than a
dozen primary
debates.
But those were nothing like
tonight.
Anita Dunn is a former Obama
aide who helped
the president prepare for the
2012 debates.
ANITA DUNN, Former White House
Communications
Director: Secretary Clinton is a
disciplined,
experienced candidate who is
going to spend
her time really thinking about
how she communicates
her vision for the country in
the face of
her opponent being on stage with
her.
Donald Trump has said he doesn't
think he
needs to do mock debates.
JOHN YANG: Brett O'Donnell was
on President
George W. Bush's 2004 debate
prep team.
BRETT O'DONNELL, Former
Presidential Debate
Adviser: Donald Trump has done
only primary
debates where he was standing on
the stage
with multiple candidates.
He hasn't had to talk about
policy issues
continuously for 90 minutes.
Hillary Clinton, on the other
hand, has done
extensive one-on-one debating.
She did it in her Senate race.
She did it when she ran for
president against
Barack Obama, and she did it
against Bernie
Sanders.
JOHN YANG: Tonight's face-off is
the first
of three scheduled debates
before Election
Day.
In the latest NBC News/"Wall
Street Journal"
poll, 11 percent of voters said
they were
not committed to any candidate
and that these
debates would be very important
in helping
them make up their minds.
So, with the national polls so
close and key
battleground states showing the
race tightening
in each of them, these debates
could be crucial
-- Gwen, Judy.
GWEN IFILL: John, can I just ask
you, as the
witching hour approaches, how
have these candidates
really been preparing?
We saw some of the spin in your
piece about
what -- raising expectations,
lowering expectations.
What's real?
JOHN YANG: I tell you, Gwen, the
debate prep
for the two candidates couldn't
be more different
than the candidates themselves.
If this were college, Hillary
Clinton would
be the grind.
She's got briefing books.
She's had mock debates, working
to time.
She's had someone sitting in for
the moderator,
someone sitting in for Donald
Trump, a very
close aide, Philippe Reines, who
knows Clinton
well and knows how to get under
her skin and
is comfortable doing it, just in
case Donald
Trump does it tonight.
And she has been working very
hard.
As a matter of fact, aides tell
me even up
until late this afternoon, she
was still at
it.
Donald Trump, on the other hand,
is sort of
gliding in.
He doesn't want to overprepare
for these.
There have been no mock debates,
no mock moderator,
no mock Hillary Clinton, going
over sort of
broad themes and maybe a few
practice answers,
but not rehearsing.
He feels confident that he's
good at these
things and just going to sort of
almost wing
it, maybe -- Gwen, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John, give us a
sense of the
scene there at Hofstra
University.
Clearly, all eyes are on this
debate tonight.
What does it look like?
JOHN YANG: It's a very -- given
the sets we
have seen in the debates this
primary season,
with all sorts of glitz and
lights and all
sorts of things, it's a very
spartan stage,
a little bit maybe even a
throwback to the
previous debates, the original
debates.
The lecterns are identical,
although in deference
to the height difference,
Secretary Clinton's
lectern a little bit lower than
Donald Trump's.
GWEN IFILL: John, how much have
they been
spending today trying to spin
expectations
in advance?
JOHN YANG: They're already --
the Clinton
people are talking about how
Trump has never
really faced any tough questions
about policy
before, almost saying that he's
being graded
on a curve, that if he were to
come out and
not be the bombastic Donald
Trump that we
have seen in the past, that that
might be
a win, that the pundits and
others may declare
it a victory.
Donald Trump already sort of
gaming the refs,
as it were, as Kellyanne Conway
said in the
piece, warning the moderator
that the moderator
shouldn't be fact-checking the
candidates,
the candidates should be doing
that.
And, incidentally, Janet Brown,
the head of
the Commission for Presidential
Debates, sort
of agrees with that.
She said it's not the
moderator's place to
check the facts of each of the
candidates.
The candidates, she said, should
be doing
that to each other.
GWEN IFILL: Well, in a little
while, we will
see only three people on that
stage trying
to decide how that's actually
going to work
itself out.
John Yang, thank you.
See you later tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
alleged gunman in a deadly
attack at a Washington
state shopping mall has
confessed, but there's
no word on a motive.
That's according to court
documents filed
today; 20-year-old Arcan Cetin
appeared before
a judge to face murder charges.
He allegedly gunned down five
people at a
Macy's on Saturday.
GWEN IFILL: A man opened fire at
a Houston
strip mall today, and wounded
six people,
one critically, before he died
in a gun battle
with police.
Afterward, officers canvassed a
nearby condo
complex where the shooter lived,
and inspected
a car, as neighbors told of
their terror.
WOMAN: I called 911 because the
bullets didn't
stop.
They wouldn't stop, and they
were getting
louder and louder.
As I was looking through the
window to try
to maybe help the police with
the direction
of who this person is, did you
see him, where
did he go, I could just hear the
bullets whizzing
through my -- by my window.
GWEN IFILL: Police say the
gunman was a lawyer
who'd had issues with his
employer.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Authorities in
Charlotte, North
Carolina, have lifted a curfew
after violence
over a police shooting abated.
Weekend protests over the
shooting of Keith
Scott stayed peaceful.
Yesterday, demonstrators locked
arms outside
the stadium where the Carolina
Panthers football
team was playing.
Police made a handful of
arrests.
GWEN IFILL: Jury selection has
begun in the
federal trial of Dylann Roof in
the killing
of nine black worshipers in
Charleston, South
Carolina, in 2015.
He's accused of hate crimes and
obstruction
of religion, and he could get
the death penalty
if convicted.
Roof faces a separate trial of
state murder
charges.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The number of
murders across
the United States rose 10
percent last year.
The FBI also reported today that
overall violent
crime increased nearly 4
percent.
Even so, U.S. Attorney General
Loretta Lynch
says 2015 was still the
third-lowest year
for violent crime in two
decades.
GWEN IFILL: There was no letup
today in the
ferocious assault on Syria's
largest city.
Russian planes laid waste to
parts of Aleppo,
and the Syrian military pressed
a new offensive
on the ground.
Today, and all through the
weekend, Eastern
Aleppo was hammered from the
sky.
Russian planes dropped huge,
bunker-busting
bombs that reduced neighborhoods
to piles
of mangled debris.
Hospitals were overwhelmed, with
at least
200 civilians killed.
The offensive began with the
collapse last
week of the
U.S.-Russia-negotiated
cease-fire.
But, today, Syria's foreign
minister blamed
Washington.
WALID AL-MOALLEM, Syrian Foreign
Minister
(through translator): If the
United States
had a real intention to find a
solution, then
it would have been able to do so
already.
Do not tell me that the United
States doesn't
have the ability to pressure the
countries
that follow it and say, enough
is enough.
GWEN IFILL: The Obama
administration rejected
that claim, and said Syria's
President Assad
and his Russian allies bear the
blame.
MARK TONER, State Department
Spokesman: It's
hard to talk about any kind of
transition
government or any kind of
negotiating process
when, you know, the moderate
Syrian opposition
and civilians in Aleppo are
being bombed.
GWEN IFILL: The diplomatic rift
led to bitter
exchanges at Sunday's emergency
meeting of
the U.N. Security Council.
U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power:
SAMANTHA POWER, U.S. Ambassador
to the United
Nations: What Russia is
sponsoring and doing
is not counterterrorism.
It is barbarism, laying waste to
what is left
of an iconic Middle Eastern
city.
These are people who have
suffered horribly
in the five-and-a-half years of
war.
GWEN IFILL: In turn, Moscow's
envoy pushed
aside hopes for a renewed truce.
VITALY CHURKIN, Russian
Ambassador to United
Nations (through translator): In
Syria, hundreds
of groups are being armed.
The territory of the country is
being bombed
indiscriminately, and bringing
peace is almost
an impossible task now.
GWEN IFILL: Amid the destruction
of Aleppo,
a trickle of humanitarian aid is
arriving
elsewhere; 70 trucks reached
four besieged
towns yesterday in northwestern
and southwestern
Syria for the first time in
nearly six months.
The assault on Aleppo means no
aid is getting
through to the 250,000 trapped
civilian.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, selling
dominated Wall Street led by
worries over
Germany's troubled Deutsche Bank
and nervousness
over tonight's presidential
debate.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 166
points to close near 18095.
The Nasdaq fell 48 points and
the S&P 500
slipped 18.
GWEN IFILL: And the Washington
Monument is
closing to the public
indefinitely.
The National Park Service said
today the obelisk
will be shut down until its
elevator control
system can be fixed.
The elevator has broken down
repeatedly in
the last two years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
we talk to Hillary Clinton's
campaign manager
and a Donald Trump adviser, as
the candidates
prepare to go head to head;
plus, pre-debate
analysis with Amy Walter, Mark
Shields, David
Brooks; and much more.
GWEN IFILL: Now looking ahead to
the debate,
we begin by hearing from both
campaigns.
A short time ago, I spoke with
Clinton campaign
manager Robby Mook and asked
what his claims
-- about his claims that Hillary
Clinton is
being held to a double standard
in advance
to tonight's showdown.
ROBBY MOOK, Hillary Clinton
Campaign Manager:
Well, Gwen, we just want both
candidates to
be graded according to the same
criteria.
First of all, both of these
candidates need
to demonstrate a command of the
issues.
That's something Hillary Clinton
has done.
We just haven't seen that yet
from Donald
Trump.
We need to hear about some real
plans.
Again, Donald Trump has not --
still hasn't
rolled out, for example, a plan
on ISIS.
His tax plan has changed
multiple times, has
been ridiculed basically every
time it's come
out.
And, lastly, Donald Trump has
got to tell
the truth.
You cannot get a passing grade
after telling
I would argue even a single lie
in this debate,
let alone the string of lies
that he usually
tells.
So, we just want people to grade
as if the
next president of the United
States is on
that stage and we're judging
them.
There is no curve when you get
into the Oval
Office.
There shouldn't be a curve at
this debate.
GWEN IFILL: So, you make the
case that the
bar has been set too low for
Donald Trump.
And yet major news outlets this
weekend wrote
basically long stories saying
that he's a
liar.
So, how can you make that
argument?
ROBBY MOOK: Well, we're asking
for people
to judge the performance in the
debate tonight.
If Donald Trump doesn't tell one
of his normal
lies, that's great.
But once we get through that
bar, which I
would argue is very low, we need
to hear a
real, true command of the
issues.
Can he actually speak for 90
seconds -- that's
the length of the answers -- in
a substantive
way about policies?
And does he actually have
concrete ideas?
He has a tendency, we saw at the
Commander-in-Chief
Forum a few weeks ago, to ramble
on and repeat
himself, repeat things that may
or may not
be true.
That's simply not enough.
We're picking our next
president.
It's time to get serious.
And voters expect him to meet a
very high
bar to become our next
president.
GWEN IFILL: I don't expect you
to tell me
all of your debate prep secrets.
But I am curious about how much
of the time
in preparing Secretary Clinton
for this debate
you spent talking or thinking
about how to
get inside Donald Trump's head.
ROBBY MOOK: Well, look, Gwen, as
you're pointing
out, one of the things that's
very troubling
to voters about Donald Trump is
his erratic
behavior, his lack of good
temperament to
serve as commander in chief.
This is not the kind of
personality you want
controlling our nuclear codes or
commanding
our men or women in uniform.
So, we don't know how Donald
Trump will act
at this debate.
I would argue that is a
threshold reason he's
not qualified to be president.
But Hillary Clinton is steady,
experienced.
She has been on that debate
stage before one
on one.
I'm sure she will be prepared
for whatever
comes her way.
GWEN IFILL: Secretary Clinton is
also on that
stage tonight.
Which audiences is she aiming
to, is she hoping
to speak to, aside from
criticizing Donald
Trump?
ROBBY MOOK: Well, Gwen, I'm
really glad you
asked that question, because we
think that
this debate is a really
important opportunity
for Secretary Clinton and for
this campaign.
A lot of voters are going to be
checking into
this debate for the very first
time.
Every time Secretary Clinton has
had the opportunity
to talk about her proactive
plans and ideas
about how to make people's lives
better, she's
done better on the campaign.
There are undecided voters
still.
There are people who are
supportive, but maybe
not quite as motivated to go
vote yet.
We see this as an opportunity to
speak to
all of those voters.
And that's the most important
thing she can
do, make the case about this
lifelong mission
she's had to fight for kids and
families and
how she's going to make a
difference in people's
lives as president.
GWEN IFILL: How worried are you
about this
latest round of tightening
polls?
ROBBY MOOK: You know, Gwen,
there are a lot
of polls out there.
Particularly public polls go up
and down.
The thing is, people use a lot
of different
methodologies.
So, we are just staying focused
on running
like we're 20 points behind.
If there is a voter who isn't
registered yet
or may not have all the
information about
how to vote, we are going to go
and work hard
to make sure that they turn out
whether we're
ahead or behind in the polls.
So, we're executing the same
strategy no matter
what.
And we're going to look past the
polls and
go right to the voters.
GWEN IFILL: So, this is the
first of three
one-on-one debates between the
presidential
debates.
How important is the first one?
Or are we going to be having
this conversation
again, saying the next one is
the most important?
ROBBY MOOK: Well, I think all of
them are
an important opportunity.
There are some slightly
different formats.
But, look, this is the first
one.
Of course, voters are probably
going to be
tuning in to this one more than
any other.
And, again, we think this is
such a valuable
opportunity for Secretary
Clinton to make
her proactive case for what
she's going to
do to help everyday people, why
people should
be excited about turning out to
vote for her.
So, we're going to take
advantage of it.
GWEN IFILL: Well, we will all be
on the edge
of our seats watching it,
probably not as
closely as you.
Robby Mook, Secretary Clinton's
campaign manager,
thank you so much for joining
us.
ROBBY MOOK: Thank you very much,
Gwen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we turn now
to Jack Kingston.
He's a former Republican
congressman from
Georgia, now a senior adviser to
Donald Trump's
campaign.
Jack Kingston, welcome.
There has been a lot of
commentary, as we
were just hearing, to the effect
that there's
a lower bar of expectations
tonight for Donald
Trump than there is for Hillary
Clinton.
Do you think that's right?
JACK KINGSTON (R), Former U.S.
Congressman:
No, I think this is the Clinton
people spinning
it.
She's a very accomplished
debater, as we should
all admit.
She's been running for president
since 2007.
Before that, she was a U.S.
senator, had plenty
of debates.
And before that, she was
coaching her husband
as a presidential and a
gubernatorial candidate.
Of course she's a very
accomplished debater.
She's very disciplined, very
scripted.
We know that.
Donald Trump, totally different
style of politics.
He is a guy who's wide open.
He's an element of change.
He's non-Washington, and he has
solutions
which the American people
support.
He's a TV personality, if you
will, who knows
how to connect with the everyday
family.
And so you're going to see two
different styles,
but when I think -- when it
comes to substance,
Hillary Clinton is going to be
on the defense.
She wants to continue Barack
Obama's economic
policies, which are slow growth,
high unemployment,
and she thinks that the national
security
picture is great, and she's
going to be on
the defensive to say why those
are great policies
and we need another three -- a
third term.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's talk
about what
Donald Trump needs to do.
We just heard Robby Mook say he
needs to give
substantive answers, be concrete
in describing
what he would do as president.
He also said he needs to tell
the truth.
Is he going to do that tonight?
JACK KINGSTON: You know, when I
hear Robby
Mook or anybody from the Clinton
campaign
talk about telling the truth,
here's a woman
who said she was, what, bombed
in Kosovo,
or shot.
Here's a woman who claims she
was named after
Sir Edmund Hillary.
This is a woman who said she had
one e-mail
server, when she had 13.
This is a woman who said she
turned over all
her e-mails.
And they're going to lecture
Donald Trump
about truth?
It's a little bit ridiculous.
We want to talk about economy.
We want to talk about jobs.
We want to talk about the fact
that there
are 94 million people who are
underemployed
or unemployed under the
Clinton-Obama economy.
We want to talk about the fact
that household
income has fallen from $57,000
to $53,000
over the last 15 years.
We want to talk about the fact
that there
is 43 million people on food
stamps.
That is not an A-plus, robust
economy.
That's not what people in
America want.
They want change.
And that's why Donald Trump is
the exciting
candidate.
That's why so many people are
tuned in to
him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Politico --
just picking
up on that, Politico has done a
survey of
-- actually, a detailed
examination of what
Mr. Trump said over the course
of several
days in a number of speeches and
interviews.
They looked at about four hours,
almost five
hours of remarks.
And they said, in that time,
they found an
untruth every
three-and-a-quarter minutes.
This is from Politico.
JACK KINGSTON: Well, yes, but
keep in mind,
what they do is they select the
statements
that they want to select.
If I were to say 20 things and
they decided
we're going to focus on five for
me and five
from Hillary, then they're going
to pick the
ones that are going to field
against Donald
Trump.
But you know what?
I think you have raised a good
point.
And I think that's one thing
that we're going
to have tonight, is each
candidate will have
the opportunity to call the
other candidate
out and say, no, that's not
actually accurate.
February 16, 2015, you said such
and such.
And I think that's what a good,
old-fashioned
debate is about.
That's why tonight is exciting,
and 100,000
-- or 100 million people are
watching it.
You know, just kind of a
footnote that I heard
earlier today, maybe the most
famous political
debate in history, the
Lincoln-Douglas debate,
there was not a moderator.
It was just candidate vs.
candidate.
I think we are going to see
enough of that
tonight, though, to reveal which
one has a
better plan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's also been
speculation,
Jack Kingston, about which
Donald Trump will
show up.
We know he's been calmer on the
campaign trail
recently than he was early in
this election
cycle.
What do you think we're going to
see?
JACK KINGSTON: You know, I
think, under the
team of Kellyanne Fitzpatrick
(sic), that
you're going to see just a lot
more steadiness,
a lot more presidential-type
behavior.
He's doing very, very well with
his base.
He has unified the Republican
Party.
So now he needs to show that he
is presidential.
And, as you know, as a very
successful businessman,
he has built empires.
He's made a lot of people a lot
of money.
He's run lots of successful
corporations.
And I think we're going to see
that part of
him tonight.
And I think it's very important,
as he talks
about national security, his
vision, as he
talks about the economy, his
talks about his style, his
administration,
again, his vision.
And I think this is going to be
a great opportunity
for him to showcase that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jack Kingston,
we're all going
to be watching along with you.
Thank you very much.
JACK KINGSTON: Thanks a lot.
GWEN IFILL: We get some
pre-debate analysis
now with Amy Walter of The Cook
Political
Report, syndicated columnist
Mark Shields,
and New York Times columnist
David Brooks.
There is so much to dig into
from all of that,
folks.
I want to start with you Mark
Shields.
What does Hillary Clinton, what
do -- does
Donald Trump have to accomplish
tonight?
MARK SHIELDS: Hillary Clinton,
at the end
of the debate, what you want
viewers to say,
yes, she's smart, she's
knowledgeable, but
she's not a bad egg, you know?
You want that sense of a
personal identity,
a reality come through to give
us a peek,
a view of her soul, her heart.
And if the people -- not a bad
egg is a pretty
high compliment in American
politics, given
the toxic atmosphere in which we
currently
dwell.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: That's what I
think she's looking
for.
Donald Trump -- Donald Trump
defies gravity.
I have no idea.
I have watched these things
since Hector was
a pup.
And I honestly -- remarkable.
I don't care, Pants on Fire,
four Pinocchios,
it makes no difference.
And so I guess he has to be
Donald Trump.
It's gotten him so far.
He's going to dance with the
girl who brung
him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy, you have
been watching
almost as long as Hector.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Yes,
I was at the Lincoln-Douglas
debates.
Were not televised.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you think
they need
to do?
AMY WALTER: Well, I think a lot
of this depends
on the terrain in which the
debate is taking
place.
And for Hillary Clinton, she
wants it to be
on -- she wants to be on the
offense, and
that means putting him on the
defense early
on about the two issues that are
the most
problematic for him, his
temperament and his
judgment, right?
So if the debate is on those
issues, who has
the temperament to be president
of the United
States, who has the experience
to do this
job, that's great terrain for
her.
If the debate is where Jack
Kingston is talking
about -- and I think this is
where Donald
Trump wants to take it -- about
change, about
shaking things up, going against
the status
quo, that's a very difficult
place for her
to be.
And that's where this election
-- like, where
this election wants to go and
where this election
is going.
Where the election wants to go,
slightly more
voters than not see this as an
election that
they want to make a change.
And for Hillary Clinton to win,
they have
to believe that that change is
much too dangerous.
GWEN IFILL: David Brooks, what
if these 100
viewers tune in for a reality
show tonight,
get a debate instead?
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: The Earth would
spin off its
axis, and we would all fall out
of our chairs.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I don't think
that's going
to happen.
I do think it is more like a
reality show.
It's drama.
And especially the undecided
voters, you know,
they're not interested in
somebody's -- the
third plank of the health care
plan.
This is not going to be Plato's
symposium,
not that it's been that so far.
This is not even about what they
say.
It's about who they are.
And we had a character debate.
And they are going to have to
display some
character traits.
Does she seem normal?
Does she seem warm?
Does she seem empathetic?
Does she seem one of us?
Does he seem in command?
Does he seem basically stable?
These are low bars, maybe, but I
do think
it's -- people are -- it's a
visual medium.
It's a visual confrontation
between two people
who sort of contemptuous of each
other.
How do they handle that body
politic is as
important as any words that
actually come
out of their mouths?
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, given that,
Mark, how much
does it matter whether Donald
Trump is preparing?
We keep hearing he doesn't like
to prepare,
he thinks that that doesn't
really matter.
And yet Hillary Clinton has been
seriously
preparing every day for a while.
MARK SHIELDS: I don't know why
the Clinton
people keep telling us how long
she's been
preparing.
That really just kind of
reinforces this process-driven
character.
We know she knows the issues
incredibly well.
We know that he doesn't know the
issues incredibly
well -- doesn't know the issues
well.
And it's not hindered him thus
far.
I agree, the temperament is a
question.
You do want to get under his
skin.
I would have Elizabeth Warren
sitting in his
eyesight, who obviously bothers
him.
And, you know, I would try and
say that the
Republican I admired and worked
most closely
with in the Senate, that Hillary
Clinton did
and has written, was John
McCain, and I think
he is a hero, unlike my
opponent, who doesn't
think John McCain is a hero, to
remind him,
through what he has said, of the
embarrassing
things he's said, the Khans, the
McCain, his
incitement to violence.
I think that's -- I would put
him -- trying
to put him on the defensive.
GWEN IFILL: Well, not only that,
but also
there has been a lot of
discussion leading
up to this debate, Amy, about
lies and truth
and consequences.
Is that something -- for
instance, we just
heard Jack Kingston make a
comment, even talking
to Judy, about 13 servers that
she had.
She didn't have 13 servers, but
they just
slide the stuff into the
conversation.
AMY WALTER: It's devices she had
vs. servers.
Exactly.
How does that work?
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
And does that matter to people
if truth gets
told or called?
AMY WALTER: Right now, Mark is
totally correct.
When you ask people in the
NBC/Wall Street
Journal poll, who do you think
is the more
honest and trustworthy, Donald
Trump wins
that question.
Now, it's not like a lot of
people believe
both of them -- either are
honest and trustworthy,
but comparatively, he wins that,
and especially
among some of the groups that
she needs to
get, like white voters.
But I think the question -- and
you know this
better than anybody, having to
moderate a
debate -- but these candidates
have both made
so many contradictory
statements, he more
than her, over the course of
this campaign.
And I think the way to start the
fact-checking
is not by having a crawl
underneath saying,
what he said was incorrect, was,
you said
this, you said this, you said
this, and you
said this.
Which one of those things is
your position
on this issue?
Rather than trying to saying,
that is actually
a lie.
No, you're not telling the
truth.
GWEN IFILL: I see, string it all
together.
AMY WALTER: String it all
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
I would just underline Mark's
humility about
this, especially for Mark -- no,
for all of
us.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: He is tied.
This is a tied race.
How that exists, I have no idea.
And so the normal rules of
Newtonian physics
suggests it shouldn't be that.
So, somehow, the rules...
GWEN IFILL: In fact, Hillary
Clinton said
as much the other day.
Why are I 50 points ahead?
(CROSSTALK)
DAVID BROOKS: Excellent
question.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it does
depend on the
poll you're looking at.
But you're right.
You're right.
DAVID BROOKS: So, she may be
ahead by two.
But this is a very close race.
And why that is happening and
how he's been
able to do this -- so it's very
hard to predict
the debate because none of the
rules are applying.
The one word I would pick out is
the word
is cruelty.
I think the time he actually has
been hurt
were the Khans, is, he has
appeared cruel.
And if he appears cruel, then I
do think we
will begin to see something
shift here.
AMY WALTER: Can I make one point
about the
laws of physics?
I actually think that this is
what the laws
of physics at this time and
place in politics
suggest we should always have a
two- or three-point
race.
What is happening in this race
and the reason
that it has gotten this close is
that Republicans
have now accepted Donald Trump.
When the race was -- there was a
big gap,
it was because so many
Republicans were staying
on the sidelines.
So, what this is telling us
about politics
in the 21st century is that
we're aligned
much more by our jerseys than we
are by anything
else.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Mark, less
than a minute.
MARK SHIELDS: Sure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We awake tomorrow
morning,
six weeks to go in this
election, will things
have changed?
MARK SHIELDS: They are going to
say, geez,
Shields, Brooks and Walter
really nailed it.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: That is what they
will say.
GWEN IFILL: We will say it.
AMY WALTER: They're already
saying it.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
That's what we will say.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: No, Judy, what is
confounding,
and I hope will get resolved
tonight, is 70
percent of Hillary Clinton's
voters believe
she would be a good president.
Barely half of Donald Trump's
voters believe
he would be a good president.
They're voting -- the majority
of whom are
voting against Hillary Clinton.
So, the change element that Amy
addressed
is so significant.
I mean, they are angry.
They feel abandoned.
They feel all sorts of things.
And the fact that Donald Trump
can't name
the NATO countries, whatever
else, or the
five presidents of the first
half of the 20th
century, make no difference to
them.
So, I think it is, as David put,
temperament,
if he does come across as cruel,
mean-spirited
and a bully.
I mean, don't forget, it's the
first time
a man has debated with a woman
for president.
GWEN IFILL: Thank you, Mark
Shields, David
Brooks, Amy Walter, kind of a
mega-Politics
Monday.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Join us at 9:00 p.m.
Eastern for
special live coverage of the
debate.
And tune in online for in-depth
analysis,
where the "NewsHour" team will
put what the
candidates say in context.
That's all at PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
remembering Arnold
Palmer, the man who brought golf
into America's
living rooms; and what makes
songs from "West
Side Story" so remarkable?
But first: Two weeks ago, the
"NewsHour" reported
on an investigation into
corruption of the
top leaders of South Sudan.
The investigation by The Sentry
group, a Washington
non-profit, alleged insider
dealing by the
president and former vice
president of the
country, as well as their top
generals.
After our report, the new vice
president of
South Sudan reached out to
"NewsHour."
Hari Sreenivasan spoke with him
last week
about the report and also what
has been a
long, violent summer in the
world's youngest
nation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This summer,
clashes between
forces supporting the president
of South Sudan
and the former vice president
have turned
violent, pushing the nation
toward the brink
of a civil war.
On July 7, troops loyal to the
president fired
between 50 and 100 rounds of
ammunition at
a convoy of American diplomats.
One group of Americans had to be
rescued from
the scene of the attack by U.S.
Marines.
No one was hurt.
Some reports said it was the
president's own
guards who led the assault.
That same week, a group of
government soldiers
stormed the Terrain Hotel,
targeting American
aid workers with beatings and
sexual abuse.
Eyewitnesses told the Associated
Press that
many of the soldiers wore the
insignia of
the presidential guard.
Former Vice President Riek
Machar left the
capital, and in his absence,
President Salva
Kiir recently appointed this
man, Taban Deng
Gai, as vice president in his
place.
Are the presidential guard under
the president's
control?
TABAN DENG GAI, South Sudanese
Vice President:
Yes, they are.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, they don't
do anything
without his orders?
TABAN DENG GAI: Not necessarily
that.
You know, even in America, Obama
is the supreme
commander, is the commander in
chief.
If the army is misbehaving in
Afghanistan
or Baghdad, what do you say?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Well, the
concern is, is
that there was an attack on U.S.
diplomats
in July, and that came from the
presidential
guard.
So was it under the president's
orders?
TABAN DENG GAI: No, the attack
on the American
vehicle was not from the
presidential guards.
It was from security personnel
who were on
patrol.
The officer in charge was
arrested and he's
still under arrest and he's
being investigated.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As for the
July attack on
the Terrain Hotel, Deng says
that the president
immediately ordered an
investigation, led
by one of South Sudan's most
respected judges.
TABAN DENG GAI: There are a
number of people
up to now got arrested.
But up to now, we have not yet
established
who among those arrested have
committed the
rape.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I ask these
questions partly
because, is it safe for an
American to visit
South Sudan?
TABAN DENG GAI: Is it safe for
the American
to visit Iraq or, say, Cairo,
for example,
or Nairobi?
Is it safe?
Or is it safe for South Sudanese
to visit
U.S.?
Those are relative.
Crime happen anywhere.
Even the days since I have been
in New York
here, there was a shooting in
North Carolina.
This is crime.
Can you say to South Sudanese
it's not say
to go to North Carolina?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Earlier this
month, the
U.N. Security Council authorized
an additional
4,000 peacekeepers to South
Sudan, this in
addition to the nearly 14,000
already in the
country.
U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power
traveled to
Juba for the announcement with
President Kiir.
Despite the joint appearance,
the South Sudanese
are hesitant to accept
additional peacekeepers.
TABAN DENG GAI: Not that we
don't want.
We want -- because the U.N., the
world family
have decided to enforce it on
us.
We can only live with it.
There's no way of us saying that
we don't
want.
But we're trying to tell the
world that, look,
let us be careful.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This most
recent cycle of
violence is once again forcing
civilians to
flee the capital city of Juba.
The U.N. says that more than a
million people
have been displaced since the
country's founding.
Just last week, the U.S.
announced $133 million
in humanitarian aid.
This makes nearly $2 billion in
U.S. aid to
South Sudan since the nation's
birth.
There is growing concern as to
how these dollars,
as well as the nation's oil
revenues are being
spent.
A recent report by The Sentry
group, a Washington
based nonprofit, documented
widespread corruption
at the upper levels of South
Sudanese government
and military.
It detailed lavish spending on
mansions and
luxury hotels around the world.
It says that President Kiir and
Riek Machar
have expensive homes in an
exclusive neighborhood
in Nairobi, Kenya, while the
president built
a massive compound in South
Sudan, far away
from the capital.
Vice President Deng says he has
not read the
report, but is still critical of
the conclusions
it draws about the president.
TABAN DENG GAI: To me, actually,
the crime
will be even if he did not even
own one house.
What has he been doing with the
salary?
HARI SREENIVASAN: What does the
president
make in South Sudan?
What's the salary?
TABAN DENG GAI: The salary?
I do not know the salary, but,
of course,
you cannot compare it to
American president.
HARI SREENIVASAN: No, no, I'm
asking.
TABAN DENG GAI: But he can buy a
house.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's put the
president
aside for a second.
What about all the other
different leaders
that they have documented, the
family members
of the generals, sometimes their
kids that
actually run the businesses that
get pretty
big contracts?
(LAUGHTER)
TABAN DENG GAI: The kids running
businesses,
they need to be investigated.
They need to.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, what can
you tell me
that your government...
TABAN DENG GAI: I'm telling you,
yes, we shall
make of use of those
informations.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Vice President
Deng acknowledges
that The Sentry group, led
partly by John
Prendergast and George Clooney,
are friends
of the nation, but disagrees
with how the
information was presented.
TABAN DENG GAI: They are friends
of the president.
They have access to the
president.
They could have discussed their
finding with
the president.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The vice
president says
he aims to meet with The Sentry
group this
week in Washington.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
GWEN IFILL: The tributes have
poured in all
day for golfing legend Arnold
Palmer, from
his friend and rival Jack
Nicklaus, to recent
champions like Tiger Woods, to
dignitaries
like President Obama.
A handful of other champions won
more tournaments
and titles, but Palmer set a
standard for
attracting public attention to
the sport.
William Brangham has a look back
at the king.
ANNOUNCER: The U.S. open, played
in the shadow
of the Rockies, saw Arnold
Palmer sink an
incredible putt.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: June 1960,
Denver, Colorado,
an improbable win in the U.S.
Open became
the stuff of golfing legend.
ANNOUNCER: Coming from seven
strokes behind,
Palmer showed nerves of steel
and a will of
granite, as he battled to win
the U.S. Open.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And it defined
the style
of Arnold Palmer.
ANNOUNCER: Golfing's man of the
year.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It was,
perhaps, Palmer's
greatest year.
He had won the Masters just two
months earlier,
and, all told, won eight times
that season.
He followed up with victories at
the next
two British Opens, and two more
Masters in
1962 and '64.
He reflected on his success in a
2011 interview
with Charlie Rose.
ARNOLD PALMER, Former
Professional Golfer:
Any time I got close, it was
just I felt I
had to win.
I had to.
I couldn't lose.
I couldn't let that happen to
me.
And it worked.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Arnold Daniel
Palmer was
born on September 10, 1929, in
Latrobe, Pennsylvania,
outside Pittsburgh.
He began swinging a club at age
4 and practically
lived at the area country club,
where his
dad was first the greenskeeper,
and later,
the club pro.
Palmer won the U.S. Amateur in
1954, turned
pro the next year and quickly
began piling
up victories, 62 over his
career, including
seven major championships.
He had a ferocious, muscular
swing that made
him one of golf's greatest
drivers.
And his magnetic, down-to-earth
personality
drew an energetic fan base,
dubbed Arnie's
Army.
He helped turn golf into a major
television
sport.
ARNOLD PALMER: The game is so
fantastic.
If I had a little bit to do with
some of the
enjoyment that I see today, I'm
pleased with
that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The fans had a
lot to enjoy,
especially in the 1960s, when
Palmer was named
the Associated Press Athlete of
the Decade.
He was so popular, he ended up
with his own
drink.
The lemonade-iced tea combo he
loved was named
after him.
Along the way, he famously
forged a bond with
President Dwight Eisenhower,
himself an avid
golfer, as Palmer recalled at
the World Golf
Hall of Fame in 2009.
ARNOLD PALMER: My relationship
with Eisenhower
is one of the great
relationships that I have
ever had in my life.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Arnold
Palmer's own success
extended far beyond his play.
He developed a passion for
course design,
putting his stamp on about 300
worldwide,
and creating the Arnold Palmer
Design Company.
ARNOLD PALMER: For me, that has
to be a Cadillac.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: He was also a
sports marketing
pioneer, advertising everything
from Cadillac,
to the blood-thinner Xarelto in
his later
years.
Palmer made time as well for
philanthropy,
opening a children's hospital
and investing
in youth development.
In 2004, he became the first
golfer to receive
the Presidential Medal of
Freedom.
And in 2012, he was awarded the
Congressional
Gold Medal.
Even in his later years, he
stayed active
in golf, playing his final
competitive match
at the age of 77.
He took over as honorary starter
at the Masters
in 2007.
After that, his friends and
longtime rivals
Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player
joined him.
Arnold Palmer died Sunday in
Pittsburgh.
He was 87 years old.
And for more on Palmer's legacy,
I'm joined
now by George Savaricas of The
Golf Channel,
who's covered Palmer's career,
and just interviewed
him a week ago.
George, thank you very much for
being here.
For those of us who haven't
really followed
his career, just tell us what a
-- what made
him such a tremendous talent on
the golf course
itself?
GEORGE SAVARICAS, The Golf
Channel: I would
say, on the golf course, it was
clearly his
style of play, because if you
look all time,
he wasn't the winningest golfer,
by any stretch
of the imagination.
That honor would go to Jack
Nicklaus, and
then Tiger Woods is also in the
conversation.
But, for Arnold, his style of
play was one
that was fearless, bordering at
times on reckless.
But it was one that fans could
easily relate
to and support, because he
always had a go-for-broke
mentality, that if there was a
shot that he
could pull off, even if the
percentage play
was to maybe be a little more
conservative,
then he would always go for
broke, go for
the gusto.
And that was something that
really appealed
to the crowds back then and it
helped build
upon what became just a -- not
just a brand
on the golf course, but a brand
off the golf
course as well.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It seems like,
just as you
say, that he came along at a
time when golf
sort of had this stodgy image of
the country
club set, and he sort of gave it
this charisma
and this sort of blue-collar
appeal that seemed
pretty novel at the time.
GEORGE SAVARICAS: Yes, he was a
guy who had
fairly humble beginnings,
definitely part
of middle-class America.
His father was a greenskeeper.
And he grew up playing at
Latrobe Country
Club, so he was a guy who
understood the value
of earning a dollar and an
honest day's paycheck.
So when he really burst on the
scene and golf
was first being televised, it
didn't hurt
that he had movie star-type
looks and was
the guy who was at the top of
the game from
about 1957 to 1963, into the mid
to late '60s.
So he was able to pile up seven
major victories,
which was remarkable at that
time.
And he did it in a short period
of time.
So he transitioned from doing
that and becoming
this figurehead on the course to
almost a
secondary career, where he was
able to become
just as successful, if not more
so, a successful
businessman.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: One of the
things I have
been struck by today in a lot of
the tributes
to him is that not only talking
about his
talent, but also that he just
seemed to be
apparently an incredibly
magnanimous person
outside of sport.
Did you see that?
GEORGE SAVARICAS: Oh, clearly.
For instance, today, I was at
Bay Hill Club
and Lodge, a private country
club that he
bought back in 1974, moved the
tournament,
the PGA tour event that's held
in Orlando
to there in 1979.
And I was just hanging outer
with the members
and getting their stories.
And he was the most unassuming
global celebrity
that you could ever come across.
He had a specific table that he
would sit
at every day and play cards with
the guys
or play a game of golf or have a
bite to eat
or have a cocktail with them and
just tell
stories.
And everyone, the first time
they would meet
him, be it if you were an A-list
celebrity
or just a guy off the street,
would be nervous,
because you're approaching
Arnold Palmer,
and that's a name that resonates
not just
with my generation or my mom's
generation
or my grandparents' generation,
with all of
those, because he's been an
A-list-plus celebrity
for 50, 60 years.
So, it was just amazing to hear
their stories,
and then to hear from guys on
the PGA Tour,
be it Tiger Woods, or Jack
Nicklaus, or Phil
Mickelson, or even younger guys
like Rickie
Fowler or Jordan Spieth, just
what it meant
to them to either share moments
or share big
chunks of their life where they
were lucky
enough to call Arnold Palmer a
friend.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We take it for
granted now
that celebrities who excel get
endorsement
deals and that's a big part of
their career,
but he was really a pioneer in
that regard
as well, right?
GEORGE SAVARICAS: That's kind of
the forgotten
story when you look at the
lasting legacy
that Arnold Palmer will leave
behind, with
what he and Mark McCormack were
able to do
with starting IMG.
And it's something that is not
lost on the
modern player.
I spoke with Suzann Pettersen
today, who is
a star on the LPGA tour.
And she said she's a member at
Bay Hill Club.
When she was looking at
representation and
trying to figure out what move
to make just
a few years ago, she talked to
Arnold Palmer
and reached out for advice.
And he told her the story of how
he and Mark
McCormack starting IMG together
and how he
was able to really build his
brand off the
course by gaining endorsements
and then spinning
that to a secondary career when
his playing
days were over.
He's been able to as profitable
and successful
as he was, or even more so, than
when he was
an A-list golfer and one of the
top draws
on the PGA Tour.
So it's something that the
modern players,
A, have to be thankful for and,
B, can still
learn lessons from.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I understand
that you interviewed
him not too long and asked him
what he thought
his lasting legacy of the game
would be.
What did he tell you?
GEORGE SAVARICAS: Yes.
It was just a week-and-a-half
ago.
And it's amazing to think that I
went from
laughing and joking with him.
And it was just so recent.
It was part of the Latrobe
Classic, which
he has hosted four years in a
row to raise
money for the Arnie's Army
Foundation.
And what he's done for health
care in the
Orlando area with the Arnold
Palmer Hospital,
the Winnie Palmer children's
hospital, which
has delivered more than 150,000
babies, you
could tell that that's what got
him excited
at this stage in his life and
his career.
And I had asked him -- it was
just two days
after his 87th birthday, when we
had this
interview -- what his goals were
going forward.
And raising money for that
hospital -- they
have a $2 million goal that
they're well en
route to.
That was at the forefront of his
mind.
And you could see that twinkle
in his eye,
that that's what was getting him
excited to
push forward.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
George Savaricas
of The Golf Channel, thanks so
much for sharing
your memories of the man.
GEORGE SAVARICAS: Of course.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally tonight,
on a light
note: On this day in 1957, "West
Side Story"
debuted on Broadway.
Composer and musician Rob
Kapilow is back
to tell us why the music has
withstood the
test of time.
Jeffrey Brown sat down with
Kapilow recently.
JEFFREY BROWN: Ron Kapilow,
welcome back.
ROB KAPILOW, Composer: It's
great to be here.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, "West Side
Story," one
of the most famous musicals in
history, but
not quite what it was intended
to be, I guess.
ROB KAPILOW: I think that's
true.
You know, Leonard Bernstein had
already written
two his musicals, "On the Town"
and "Wonderful
Town," and those shows are
filled with Bernstein's
love, facility, and affection
for the popular
music of the day.
But they're lighthearted
musicals, fundamentally.
And now he wanted to do
something serious,
and he got together an
incredibly serious
crew of guys.
I mean, we had Jerome Robbins,
who did serious
ballets.
We had Arthur Laurents, who
wrote serious
plays.
We had Leonard Bernstein, and
they wanted
to do something serious.
That was the amazing thing about
Bernstein.
He could actually do both, and
he crossed
over.
And this whole piece is really
about, in a
way, the conflict between those
two worlds,
between the serious world.
This is going to be, he called a
tragic musical
comedy, if that's not an
oxymoron.
JEFFREY BROWN: Tragedies get
turned into operas
all the time.
ROB KAPILOW: All the time.
In fact, tragedy is the
lifeblood of opera.
It's not really an opera unless
somebody dies
at the end.
But people don't usually die at
the end in
a Broadway musical.
And this one had a body count of
three, with
two of them dead at the first
act curtain.
I mean, that is not the stuff of
a Broadway
musical, not to mention a
classic Shakespeare
play, "Romeo and Juliet," as the
background.
JEFFREY BROWN: Most people, of
course, know
"West Side Story" from the film,
the musical
version.
ROB KAPILOW: True.
True.
JEFFREY BROWN: So use the song
"Maria," a
famous song.
ROB KAPILOW: Famous song.
JEFFREY BROWN: Show us what
turned out there.
ROB KAPILOW: Well, there's a
great moment
in the middle of "Maria," which
shows this
battle intention between opera
and Broadway.
The orchestra is playing the
music of the
opening as if it's become
somehow Tony's subconscious
mind.
ACTOR (singing): Maria.
I have just kissed a girl named
Maria, and
suddenly I found how wonderful a
song can
be.
ROB KAPILOW: Beautiful chord,
and all the
warmth.
Now, that's what the orchestra
is doing, but,
above it, in the film, Tony, as
if rhapsodizing
about this Maria, the sound and
the single
word gets higher and higher in
pitch, until
finally climaxes up here, Maria,
and then
in the film, sings this.
ACTOR (singing): Maria.
Maria.
ROB KAPILOW: Now, that's kind of
operatic,
but it's lower in pitch.
JEFFREY BROWN: We're not holding
you to just
sing it again.
ROB KAPILOW: But -- exactly.
No one's vocal chords are
straining.
No one's blood vessels are
bursting.
It's doable eight times a week,
and for the
public, it was perfectly
successful.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right, but that's
not the opera
version that Bernstein wanted.
ROB KAPILOW: That's not what he
wanted.
He comes from the world of being
one of the
great opera conductors.
I mean, was there ever a more
over-the-top,
larger-than-life, operatic
personality than
Bernstein?
So, he writes a version that
goes higher,
and higher, and higher, and
finally climaxes
on a high B-flat held for 10
beats.
ACTOR (singing): Maria!
ROB KAPILOW: This is something
right out of
"La Bohem" or "La Traviata."
You literally see the vocal
chords bursting.
Now, eventually, they had to get
rid of it,
and Bernstein was so depressed
because he
was constantly writing to his
wife, they're
getting rid of all my favorite
parts, the
operatic parts.
But he realized that for a tenor
to sing a
high B-flat for 10 beats eight
times a week
would be hospital-casualty
material.
JEFFREY BROWN: So that's gone
from the musical.
ROB KAPILOW: That's gone.
They lowered it in pitch.
He doesn't have to sing the high
notes
But, interestingly, later in his
life, in
his head, he thought, I really
do want to
hear this with opera singers,
and he actually
went back later and recorded it
with opera
singers, with the incredibly
high B-flat.
JEFFREY BROWN: Your argument is
that somehow
in the tension between this
opera and musical,
high and low, I guess, something
great happened.
ROB KAPILOW: Yes.
One of the great things about
Bernstein was
that he moved so effortlessly
between the
worlds of serious music and
popular music,
and he spoke both languages
absolutely as
if they were vernacular.
And what's interesting is the
tension between
what he brought to the world of
the Broadway
musical was the entire world of
serious classical
music, yet he also spoke it in a
natural way
that other classical composers
didn't.
And the end of this piece is a
perfect example.
ACTOR (singing): The most
beautiful song I
ever heard.
ROB KAPILOW: It ends with opera,
but not the
high opera that we think of
opera, but the
intimate world of opera, a
floated voice,
a falsetto voice, not the first
Maria, Maria,
not the second one, Maria, but a
final one
that resolves Maria for the
first time in
the piece, Maria.
ACTOR (singing): Maria.
ROB KAPILOW: And while a tenor,
only an operatic
tenor can do it well, floats
this high note,
the orchestra goes, and we end
the perfect
merging of Broadway musical and
the world
of opera.
JEFFREY BROWN: "West Side
Story."
Rob Kapilow, thank you so much.
ROB KAPILOW: Thanks, Jeff.
GWEN IFILL: You should have
heard Judy and
I singing along.
It was something.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: That's the
"NewsHour" for tonight.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here at 9:00
p.m. Eastern for special
coverage and analysis
of the presidential debate.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you.
And we will see you soon.